
# English Speech Presentation at VAS Sala Campus
Do not seek for money, seek for meaning instead


Now, to be honest with you, I am extremely obsessed with money, and I’m sure that a lot of you here do too. Money can buy us an extendable number of things such as comfort, foods, a reliable car, a house, or anything that is tangible to us humans, but I have recently observed that there has been a problem distributing around lately. People nowadays are more willingly trying to pursue for money, for cashes, for financial support to the point where they have even forgotten about their ambitious dream which they had been chasing down their whole life. Don’t get me wrong here, the pursuit for money is not always a vague notion, but the more you earn the more you spend it, and it’s a really stressful thing of keeping up to date with. However, there’s something even more essential in life that you should pursuing after rather than money itself, and that is the meaning of life.
Many years ago, Kyrie Irving, an NBA American basketball player, went to three straight finals, won one of them, and made $50 million over that time, however, he stated that it wasn’t enough to keep him happy. Another familiar case is with Rob Gronkowski, an American Football player in the position of a tight end for New England Patriots, Rob’s base salary was $8 million worth that time, or $500000 per game, but that also wasn’t enough to keep him happy. To explain for these two scenarios, Kyrie and Rob weren’t happy, in spite of all the money they’re earning, the houses they’re living in and the cars that they are driving, is because of how quickly they adjust to a new reality. Imagine the states of before and after buying something, happiness doesn’t occur after you’ve bought something in a particular day, it occurs from conceiving on how you’ll feel on the day you buy it. Thereafter, we often overestimate the joy that we’ll get on finally having that thing, which later conducts to the cycle of being happy before and unhappy after grasping the things that we’ve always wanted in our hands. However, meaning is different, it clings to us the rest of our lives and gives us something important to seek after; moreover, when we finally completed that goal which is a million times more worthwhile to do than actually seeking for money, we’ll definitely be happier.
Another reason why money isn’t something necessary we should be chasing after, is like what I’ve said, the more money you earn, the more you spend on it, and so it’s just an incredibly difficult thing to keep in track with. If you can’t determine how much money you earn annually or monthly, then you cannot also be certain on how much money you spent on things that you’d need in a daily basis. One of the most famous quotes I have seen about money comes from David Enrich’s The Spider Network: a character’s father said, “Money can’t make you happy, but it does allow you to be miserable in comfort”. But meaning is a whole ‘nother aspect, meaning can decide your fate or destiny based on the person who you’ll become in life. It doesn’t matter how successful you are or how much money you’ve gained throughout your entire life, what matters to you the most is why were you born in this world? Why are you here in this room right now? Why am I even talking to you right now? The meaning of life derives from asking ourselves the “why” questions, and for once, it’s something we should be pursuing for the rest of our life, we can create happiness if we have a meaning in life.
In conclusion, I love money and what it offers to us, but we don’t have to always use up our time to seek for it. I know, I know. Without money, we can’t live a fully, healthy and sustainable life, however, in my opinion, lives would be much better if we used up our time wisely to foresee the reflection of us in the future - who we’ll likely become, for instance: A father or a mother, who is going have to come down to care about their own sons and daughters when they eventually grow up. I don’t know exactly, but the thing I know is that what we should be doing right now is not to seek for money; we should be seeking for our meaning, so for the remaining of our existence, we can finally be happy and satisfied. Thank you.
